Working with Guides guides (#2952)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/guides/working-with-guides/core/2-setting-up-examples-on-core-manual.md

---
title: "Setting up example projects locally"
id: 2-setting-up-examples-on-core-manual
slug: working-with-guides/core/2-setting-up-manual
description: Learn how to set up Guides example projects on dbt Core on your computer.
displayText: dbt Core manual setup
hoverSnippet: Learn how to set up Guides example projects on dbt Core on your computer.
---

## Getting started

This path is for more advanced user who already have a preferred method of developing with dbt locally. We'll outline some basic steps here, but feel free to make this repo work with your preferred setup.

> 1. 🔀 **Fork the repo**. Go to the repo specificed as the example project in the guide you're working through, or start from [the base template](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle-shop-template). Click `Use this template` and `Create new repository`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. 🔀 **Fork the repo**: Go to the repo specified as the example project in the guide you're working through, or start from [the base template](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle-shop-template). Click **Use this template** and **Create new repository**.
```

> 2. 👯 **Clone your fork locally.** If you're unsure how to do this in GitHub, we'd suggest workign through one of the other pathways.

Reviewer: maybe link to other pathways?

```suggestion
2. 👯 **Clone your fork locally**: If you're unsure how to do this in GitHub, we'd suggest working through one of the other pathways.
```

3. 🌍 Ideally you should **create a virtual environment** for your project. Again, if you're not sure about this step, we'd suggest the other learning options.
4. 📚 **Install the dependencies** in `requirements.txt`.

> 5. ↔️ Ensure you're **connecting to the profile** you want to connect to. If you're using duckdb you can use the profile in the repo. If you want to connect to an existing warehouse, you'll want to delete that file so dbt looks in you `~/.dbt/profiles.yml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. ↔️ Ensure you're **connecting to the profile** you want to connect to. If you're using duckdb you can use the profile in the repo. If you want to connect to an existing warehouse, you'll want to delete that file so dbt looks in your `~/.dbt/profiles.yml` file.
```

6. 📦 **Run `dbt deps`** to install the necessary dbt packages.
7. 🛠️ **Run a `dbt build`** to build the project!

> 8. 📊 Use [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) and [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) to explore the data from the commandline or an open source, code-first BI tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. 📊 Use [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) and [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) to explore the data from the command line or an open-source, code-first BI tool.
```

> 9. [Optional] If you'd like to generate a larger selection of data, you can run `jagen --years n` to generate n number of years of synthetic data. It gets exponentially slower as time goes on and the stores grow in size and number, so we'd suggest aiming at around 6 for a good balance of data size and time to build. It will build into the `jaffle-data` folder and automatically be sourced based on the `sources.yml` and `dbt-duckdb` adapter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. **Optional**: If you'd like to generate more data, run `jagen --years n` where `n` is the number of years of synthetic data you want.  It gets exponentially slower as time goes on and the stores grow in size and number, so we'd suggest aiming at around 6 for a good balance of data size and build time. The data will be built into the `jaffle-data` folder and automatically sourced based on the `sources.yml` and `dbt-duckdb` adapter.

```
